Optical Character Recognition (OCR) is a system that provides a full alphanumeric recognition of printed or handwritten characters by simply scanning the text image. OCR system interprets the printed or handwritten characters image and converts it into corresponding editable text document. The text image is divided into regions by isolating each line, then individual characters with spaces. After character extraction, the texture and topological features like corner points, features of different regions, ratio of character area and convex area of all characters of text image are calculated. Previously features of each uppercase and lowercase letter, digit, and symbols are stored as a template. Based on the texture and topological features, the system recognizes the exact character using feature matching between the extracted character and the template of all characters as a measure of similarity.
INTRODUCTION
Optical character recognition (OCR) is the conversion of scanned images of printed, handwritten, or typewritten text into machine-encoded text. This technology allows to automatically recognize characters through an optical mechanism. In case of human beings, our eyes are optical mechanism. The image seen by eyes is input for brain. OCR is a technology that functions like human ability of reading. OCR is not able to compete with human reading capabilities. OCR is a technology that enables you to convert different types of documents such as scanned paper documents, PDF files or images captured by a digital camera into editable and searchable data. One widely known application is in banking, where OCR is used to process demand draft or cheque without human involvement. An image of demand draft or cheque can be captured by mobile camera, the writing on it is scanned instantly, and the correct amount of money is transferred. This technology has nearly been perfected for printed demand draft or cheque and is fairly accurate for handwritten demand draft or cheque as well, though it requires signature verification. In the legal industry, there has also been a significant movement to digitize paper documents. To save space and eliminate the need to sift through boxes of paper files, documents are being scanned. OCR further simplifies the process by making documents text-searchable, so that they are easier to locate and work with once in the database. Legal professionals now have fast, easy access to a huge library of documents in electronic format, which they can find simply by typing in a few keywords. OCR is widely used in many other fields, including education, finance, and government agencies.

import pytesseract:- Python-tesseract is an optical character recognition (OCR) tool for python. That is, it will recognize and “read” the text embedded in images.
Python-tesseract is a wrapper for Google’s Tesseract-OCR Engine. It is also useful as a stand-alone invocation script to tesseract, as it can read all image types supported by the Pillow and Leptonica imaging libraries, including jpeg, png, gif, bmp, tiff, and others. Additionally, if used as a script, Python-tesseract will print the recognized text instead of writing it to a file.
From PIL import image:-  To load the image, we simply import the image module from the pillow and call the Image. open(), passing the image filename. Instead of calling the Pillow module, we will call the PIL module as to make it backward compatible with an older module called Python Imaging Library (PIL).

